PROVDOTNET, LLC
COLOCATION AND MANAGED SERVICES
REPORT OF CONTROLS AT A SERVICE ORGANIZATION
RELEVANT TO SECURITY AND AVAILABILITY
AS OF
JUNE 30, 2020THIS DOCUMENT IS CONFIDENTIAL and has been prepared by Kahn, Litwin, Renza & Co., Ltd. and
Provdotnet, LLC. This document is being provided to User Entities of Provdotnet, LLC under the condition that it
be kept in confidence and used solely for the purpose of allowing the User Entities to evaluate the controls placed
in operation by Provdotnet, LLC. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender and destroy this
document without copying or disclosing its contents.Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.INDEPENDENT SERVICE AUDITORS’ REPORT ......................................................................................... 2
II.REPORT OVERVIEW ................................................................................................................................. 5
A. REPORT APPLICABILITY .................................................................................................................... 5
B. APPLICABLE TRUST SERVICES CATEGORIES .................................................................................... 5
III. MANAGEMENT OF PROVDOTNET, LLC’S ASSERTION REGARDING ITS COLOCATION AND MANAGED
SERVICES SYSTEM ................................................................................................................................... 6
IV. DESCRIPTION OF PROVDOTNET, LLC’S COLOCATION AND MANAGED SERVICES SYSTEM ................. 8
A. OVERVIEW OF PROVDOTNET’S OPERATIONS.................................................................................... 8
B. DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES PROVIDED ............................................................................................. 8
C. PRINCIPAL SERVICE COMMITMENTS AND SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS ............................................... 9
D. COMPONENTS OF THE SYSTEM ........................................................................................................ 10
E. BOUNDARIES OF THE SYSTEM .......................................................................................................... 13
F. RELEVANT ASPECTS OF THE CONTROL ENVIRONMENT, RISK ASSESSMENT PROCESS,
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, MONITORING AND CONTROL ACTIVITIES ...... 14
G. SUBSERVICE ORGANIZATIONS ......................................................................................................... 21
H. COMPLIMENTARY USER ENTITY CONTROL CONSIDERATIONS ..................................................... 23
I. TRUST SERVICES CRITERIA AND RELATED CONTROLS ................................................................. 25
J. CHANGES TO THE SYSTEM DURING THE PERIOD ............................................................................ 25
V. DESCRIPTION OF CONTROLS...................................................................................................................... 26
A. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ EXAMINATION ............................. 26
B. APPLICABLE TRUST SERVICES CRITERIA RELEVANT TO SECURITY ............................................. 27
C. APPLICABLE TRUST SERVICES CRITERIA RELEVANT TO AVAILABILITY ...................................... 44I.
INDEPENDENT SERVICE AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the Management of
Provdotnet, LLC:
SCOPE
We have examined Provdotnet, LLC’s accompanying description of its Colocation and Managed Services
System found in Section IV titled “Description of Provdotnet, LLC’s Colocation and Managed Services
System” as of June 30, 2020 (“description”) based on the criteria for a description of a service organization’s
system set forth in DC 200, 2018 Description Criteria for a Description of a Service Organization's System in
a SOC 2® Report (AICPA, Description Criteria), (“description criteria”) and the suitability of the design of
controls stated in the description as of June 30, 2020, to provide reasonable assurance that Provdotnet, LLC’s
service commitments and system requirements were achieved based on the trust services criteria relevant to
Security and Availability (“applicable trust services criteria”) set forth in TSP 100, 2017 Trust Services
Criteria for Security, Availability, Processing Integrity, Confidentiality, and Privacy (AICPA, Trust Services
Criteria).
The description indicates that certain complementary user entity controls that are suitably designed and
operating effectively are necessary, along with controls at Provdotnet, LLC, to achieve Provdotnet, LLC’s
service commitments and system requirements based on the applicable trust services criteria. The description
presents Provdotnet, LLC's controls, the applicable trust services criteria, and the complementary user entity
controls assumed in the design of Provdotnet, LLC’s controls. Our examination did not include such
complementary user entity controls and we have not evaluated the suitability of the design or operating
effectiveness of such controls.
Provdotnet, LLC uses a subservice organization, Code42 Software, Inc., for cloud-based endpoint data security
and recovery; a subservice organization, Zendesk, a cloud-based service provider for client help desk ticket
support; a subservice organization, Intuit, Inc. (QuickBooks Online) for accounting software services
including the manual processing of credit card transactions; and a subservice organization, Microsoft Office
365 (Office 365) for office productivity, email and document management services (“subservice
organizations”). (“subservice organizations”). The description indicates that complementary subservice
organizations’ controls that are suitably designed and operating effectively are necessary, along with controls
at Provdotnet, LLC, to achieve Provdotnet, LLC’s service commitments and system requirements based on
the applicable trust services criteria. The description presents Provdotnet, LLC’s controls, the applicable trust
services criteria, and the types of complementary subservice organizations’ controls assumed in the design of
Provdotnet, LLC’s controls. The description does not disclose the actual controls at the subservice
organizations. Our examination did not include the services provided by the subservice organizations, and we
have not evaluated the suitability of the design or operating effectiveness of such complementary subservice
organizations’ controls.
2SERVICE ORGANIZATION’S RESPONSIBILITIES
Provdotnet, LLC is responsible for its service commitments and system requirements and for designing,
implementing, and operating effective controls within the system to provide reasonable assurance that
Provdotnet, LLC’s service commitments and system requirements were achieved. In Section III, Provdotnet,
LLC has provided the accompanying assertion titled “Management of Provdotnet, LLC’s Assertion Regarding
its Colocation and Managed Services System” (“assertion”) about the description and the suitability of design
of controls stated therein. Provdotnet, LLC is also responsible for preparing the description and assertion,
including the completeness, accuracy, and method of presentation of the description and assertion; providing
the services covered by the description; selecting the applicable trust services criteria and stating the related
controls in the description; and identifying the risks that threaten the achievement of Provdotnet, LLC’s service
commitments and system requirements.
SERVICE AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the description and on the suitability of design of controls stated
in the description based on our examination. Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation
standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that
we plan and perform our examination to obtain reasonable assurance about whether, in all material respects,
the description is presented in accordance with the description criteria and the controls stated therein were
suitably designed to provide reasonable assurance that Provdotnet, LLC’s service commitments and system
requirements were achieved based on the applicable trust services criteria. We believe that the evidence we
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
An examination of a description of a service organization’s system and the suitability of the design of controls
involves:
• obtaining an understanding of the system and the service organization's service commitments and
system requirements.
• assessing the risks that the description is not presented in accordance with the description criteria and
that controls were not suitably designed.
• performing procedures to obtain evidence about whether the description is presented in accordance
with the description criteria.
• performing procedures to obtain evidence about whether controls stated in the description were
suitably designed to provide reasonable assurance that the service organization achieved its service
commitments and system requirements based on the applicable trust services criteria.
• evaluating the overall presentation of the description.
Our examination also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.
INHERENT LIMITATIONS
The description is prepared to meet the common needs of a broad range of report users and may not, therefore,
include every aspect of the system that individual users may consider important to meet their informational
needs. There are inherent limitations in any system of internal control, including the possibility of human error
and the circumvention of controls. The projection to the future of any conclusions about the suitability of the
design of controls is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
3OTHER MATTER
We did not perform any procedures regarding the operating effectiveness of controls stated in the description
and, accordingly, do not express an opinion thereon.
OPINION
In our opinion, in all material respects:
a. the description presents Provdotnet, LLC’s Colocation and Managed Services System that was
designed and implemented as of June 30, 2020 in accordance with the description criteria.
b. the controls stated in the description were suitably designed as of June 30, 2020 to provide reasonable
assurance that Provdotnet, LLC’s service commitments and system requirements would be achieved
based on the applicable trust services criteria, if its controls operated effectively as of that date and if
the subservice organizations and user entities applied the complementary controls assumed in the
design of Provdotnet, LLC’s controls as of that date.
RESTRICTED USE
This report is intended solely for the information and use of Provdotnet, LLC; user entities of Provdotnet,
LLC's Colocation and Managed Services System as of June 30, 2020; business partners of Provdotnet, LLC
subject to risks arising from interactions with the Colocation and Managed Services System; practitioners
providing services to such user entities and business partners; prospective user entities and business partners;
and regulators who have sufficient knowledge and understanding of the following:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
The nature of the service provided by Provdotnet, LLC.
How Provdotnet, LLC’s system interacts with user entities, business partners, subservice
organizations, and other parties.
Internal control and its limitations.
Complementary subservice organization controls and how those controls interact with the controls at
Provdotnet, LLC to achieve Provdotnet, LLC’s service commitments and system requirements.
User entity responsibilities and how they may affect the user entity's ability to effectively use
Provdotnet, LLC’s services.
The applicable trust services criteria.
The risks that may threaten the achievement of Provdotnet, LLC’s service commitments and system
requirements and how controls address those risks.
This report is not intended to be, and should not be, used by anyone other than these specified parties.
Boston, Massachusetts
September 24, 2020
4Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
II. REPORT OVERVIEW
A. REPORT APPLICABILITY
This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements and guidance established in AT-C section
105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements and AT-C section 205, Examination Engagements and
in accordance with guidance from the AICPA for the performance and reporting on Service Organization
Control (“SOC”) reports, “SOC 2® Reporting on an Examination of Controls at a Service Organization
Relevant to Security, Availability, Processing Integrity, Confidentiality, or Privacy”.
B. APPLICABLE TRUST SERVICES CATEGORIES
The relevant Trust Services Categories for the Provdotnet, LLC Colocation and Managed Services System are
the Security and Availability categories.
SECURITY
The trust services criteria relevant to Security address the need for information and systems to be protected
against unauthorized access, unauthorized disclosure of information, and damage to systems that could
compromise the availability, integrity, confidentiality, and privacy of information or systems and affect the
service organization’s ability to achieve its service commitments and system requirements.
Security refers to the protection of:
a. information during its collection or creation, use, processing, transmission, and storage; and
b. systems that use electronic information to process, transmit or transfer, and store information to enable
the achievement of the entity’s service commitments and system requirements. Controls over security
prevent or detect the breakdown and circumvention of segregation of duties, system failure, incorrect
processing, theft or other unauthorized removal of information or system resources, misuse of
software, and improper access to or use of, alteration, destruction, or disclosure of information.
AVAILABILITY
Information and systems are available for operation and use to meet the entity’s objectives.
The trust services criteria relevant to Availability refer to the accessibility of information used by the entity’s
systems, as well as the products or services provided to its customers and address whether systems include
controls to support accessibility for operation, monitoring, and maintenance.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
5Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
III. MANAGEMENT OF PROVDOTNET, LLC’S ASSERTION REGARDING ITS
COLOCATION AND MANAGED SERVICES SYSTEM
We have prepared the accompanying description of Provdotnet, LLC’s Colocation and Managed Services
System titled Description of Provdotnet, LLC’s Colocation and Managed Services System as of June 30, 2020
(“description”) based on the criteria for a description of a service organization’s system set forth in DC 200,
2018 Description Criteria for a Description of a Service Organization's System in a SOC 2® Report (AICPA,
Description Criteria), (“description criteria”). The description is intended to provide report users with
information about the Colocation and Managed Services System that may be useful when assessing the risks
arising from interactions with Provdotnet, LLC’s system, particularly information about system controls that
Provdotnet, LLC has designed, implemented, and operated to provide reasonable assurance that its service
commitments and system requirements were achieved based on the trust services criteria relevant to security
and availability (“applicable trust services criteria”) set forth in TSP 100, 2017 Trust Services Criteria for
Security, Availability, Processing Integrity, Confidentiality, and Privacy (AICPA, Trust Services Criteria).
Provdotnet, LLC uses a subservice organization, Code42 Software, Inc., for cloud-based endpoint data security
and recovery; a subservice organization, Zendesk, a cloud-based service provider for client help desk ticket
support; a subservice organization, Intuit, Inc. (QuickBooks Online) for accounting software services
including the manual processing of credit card transactions; and a subservice organization, Microsoft Office
365 (Office 365) for office productivity, email and document management services (“subservice
organizations”). (“subservice organizations”). The description indicates that complementary subservice
organizations’ controls that are suitably designed and operating effectively are necessary, along with controls
at Provdotnet, LLC, to achieve Provdotnet, LLC’s service commitments and system requirements based on
the applicable trust services criteria. The description presents Provdotnet, LLC’s controls, the applicable trust
services criteria, and the types of complementary subservice organizations’ controls assumed in the design of
Provdotnet, LLC’s controls. The description does not disclose the actual controls at the subservice
organizations.
The description indicates that complementary user entity controls that are suitably designed and operating
effectively are necessary, along with controls at Provdotnet, LLC, to achieve Provdotnet, LLC’s service
commitments and system requirements based on the applicable trust services criteria. The description presents
Provdotnet, LLC’s controls, the applicable trust services criteria, and the complementary user entity controls
assumed in the design of Provdotnet, LLC’s controls.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
6Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
We confirm, to the best of our knowledge and belief, that:
1) The description presents Provdotnet, LLC’s Colocation and Managed Services System that was designed
and implemented as of June 30, 2020 in accordance with the description criteria.
2) The controls stated in the description were suitably designed as of June 30, 2020 to provide reasonable
assurance that Provdotnet, LLC’s service commitments and system requirements would be achieved based
on the applicable trust services criteria, if its controls operated effectively as of that date and if the
subservice organizations and user entities applied the complementary controls assumed in the design of
Provdotnet, LLC’s controls as of that date.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
7Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
IV. DESCRIPTION OF PROVDOTNET, LLC’S COLOCATION AND MANAGED
SERVICES SYSTEM
A. OVERVIEW OF PROVDOTNET’S OPERATIONS
Founded in 2009, Provdotnet, LLC (Provdotnet) is a provider of colocation and limited managed services.
Provdotnet is headquartered in Providence, RI, and operates three (3) colocation hosting facilities which
deploy high availability colocation and interconnect services companies located throughout the United States.
Provdotnet's colocation facility locations are typically selected to provide both nearby and geographic
diversity companies operating in the New York and New England States. The colocation facilities feature
Necessary-Plus-1 (N+1) infrastructure redundancy. Provdotnet's customers include organizations in the
Telecommunications, Government, Media and High Technology industries. Provdotnet does not provide any
computing or data storage for customers as customers establish their own data center computing, security,
switching, and data storage within any of Provdotnet's facilities.
Provdotnet allows businesses to launch new online services, shared computing resource services (i.e., cloud
services), or new business applications to their Customer's or constituents. Provdotnet is classified as a
registered Internet Service Provider (“ISP”) that provides customers with internet services ranging from one
megabit to ten gigabits per second.
Provdotnet provides Primary or Disaster Recovery Site services to customers needing a remote site for their
backup computers and applications. Provdotnet also provides managed turnkey-like services that include
providing all the necessary hardware, operating systems, internet bandwidth, engineers, and support personnel
necessary to establish and maintain Customer e-commerce websites or online computer applications.
Types of services provided to Provdotnet’s customers:
•
•
•
Physically Secure and Environmentally Conditioned Space in a Multi-tenant/ Colocation facility for
customers to house their Network Switching, Data Storage and Data Processing Equipment
Critical Power and HVAC in an N+1 format that utilizes Multiple HVAC units, Uninterruptable
Power Supplies (UPS) and back-up generators to ensure maximum uptime for customer equipment
Native (Unsecured) Internet Access Services
B. DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES PROVIDED
Multiple Space Configurations:
The Provdotnet colocation facilities accommodate multiple space configurations. Customer configurations
can be as small as "1U", limited to 1/4 or 1/2 cabinets or multiple full cabinets. Provdotnet can also provide
roof and smoke-stack rights for customers to mount transmission antennae and equipment.
Carrier-neutral Network Services:
Provdotnet provides access to a number of tier 1 telecommunication carriers, including: AT&T, Verizon, Cox
Communications, (formerly Abovenet), Cogent, Lightower, Fibertech and Towerstream.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
8Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Secure Access and Surveillance:
The Provdotnet colocation facilities are fully alarmed and video monitored on a 24x7x52 basis. To access the
facilities, every person must provide a photo or sufficient visual identification. Provdotnet maintains an active
access permissions list identifying personnel approved by each customer who may enter the facility and an
electronic detailed log of all visits. A facility-wide video surveillance system is in use which is digitally
recorded and stored.
Managed Services Provided
Managed IP Network:
Provdotnet provides fully managed high availability IP "blended" bandwidth using Border Gateway
Protocol (BGP) to allow for fully decentralized routing.
C. PRINCIPAL SERVICE COMMITMENTS AND SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
Provdotnet designs its processes and procedures related to its Colocation and Managed Services System to
meet its objectives for providing data center solutions to its clients. Those objectives are based on the service
commitments that Provdotnet makes to user entities, the laws and regulations that govern the provision of its
services, and the financial, operational, and compliance requirements that Provdotnet has established for the
services.
Service commitments to user entities are documented and communicated in a Service Level Agreement
(“SLA”) (inclusive of attachments and product order forms) as well as in the description of the service offering
provided online. Service commitments are generally standardized and include, but are not limited to:
•
•
•
•
•
•
Provdotnet will provide redundant power and bandwidth for managed services;
Provdotnet will maintain systems without affecting customer services except for pre-approved planned
maintenance;
Provdotnet availability commitments include:
• Mean Time to Repair/Restore (“MTTR”) – four (4) hours per incident
• Availability: 99.95%
• Mean Time to Respond: one (1) hour
Credit provisions should availability of services due to power outage or bandwidth interruption;
Customer option to terminate contract if SLA is not met for two (2) consecutive months; and
Confidentiality provisions regarding proprietary technical and business information of both
Provdotnet and its customers.
System requirements for user entities are documented and communicated in a Service Level Agreement
(“SLA”) (inclusive of attachments and product order forms).
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
9Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
In achieving its service commitments and system requirements, Provdotnet has implemented various controls
to ensure Security and Availability; such as:
•
•
•
Physical access controls to the data centers;
Monitoring of bandwidth in and out of the data center; and
Incident response program designed to minimize the impact of incidents and protect resources.
Provdotnet establishes operational requirements that support the achievement of service commitments,
relevant laws and regulations, and other system requirements. Such requirements are communicated in
Provdotnet’s system policies and procedures, system design documentation, and contracts with customers.
Information security policies define an organization-wide approach to how systems and data are protected.
These include policies around how the service is designed and developed, how the system is operated, how
the internal business systems and networks are managed and how employees are hired and trained.
D. COMPONENTS OF THE SYSTEM
As defined by DC 200, a system consists of five (5) key components organized to achieve a specified objective.
The five components are categorized as follows:
•
•
•
•
•
Infrastructure. The physical hardware components of a system (facilities, equipment, and networks)
Software. The programs and operating software of a system (systems, applications, and utilities)
People. The personnel involved in the operation and use of a system (developers, operators, users and
managers)
Procedures. The automated and manual procedures involved in the operation of a system
Data. The information used and supported by a system (transaction streams, files, databases, and
tables)
The Provdotnet Colocation and Managed Services System, using the above framework, is discussed below:
Infrastructure
The physical infrastructure provided by Provdotnet falls into four (4) categories; 1) secure physical sites and
buildings consisting of three (3) leased facilities with secure physical access provided to all entrances. All
Provdotnet’s facilities are fully alarmed with fire and intrusion detection systems, twenty four (24) hour video
surveillance systems, door access systems that use proximity bio-metric reader identity-access systems, all the
facilities have dual-action dry-pipe sprinkler systems site and a FM200 fire suppression system, 2) the Critical
Power infrastructure consists of Industrial Electrical Switch Equipment and Transfer Switches,
Uninterruptable Power Supplies (“UPS”s) and backup generators. The critical power systems are used to
ensure high availability and N+1 power for customer equipment, 3) Cooling Infrastructure, consisting of
multiple units at each facility is also used to ensure high availability and N+1 cooling for customer
equipment, and 4) Networking Equipment to ensure high availability and N+1 internet services for customer
use.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
10Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Software
The Company has several applications in use, as described below:
•QuickBooks Online – Accounting software system. QuickBooks Online access is restricted via a
username and password. The data is secured and backed up in the Intuit data center.
•Office 365 with applications – The Company uses Microsoft Office 365 for its secure email system.
•Paessler PRTG – Network monitoring software to watch over network devices and server.
•CrashPlan by Code 42 – Online backup software for file based backups to a secure encrypted data
center. Access to CrashPlan is protected by a username and password.
•Axis Camera Station – Video Surveillance software to monitor and record via cameras.
•VMWare Hypervisor Software – Provdotnet’s internal servers are hosted on four (4) VMWare host
machines running ESXi.
•StanleyPac – Access Control software to control authenticated user access to the facility located at
the service organization’s at Providence, RI headquarters.
•Bosch EZ Controller – Access Control software to control authenticated user access to the facility
located at the service organization’s ancillary Providence location.
•Zendesk – Ticketing System & Change Management software that allows Provdotnet employees to
enter service requests and change management requests.
•Junos Pulse – SLL VPN Client Software that allows secure remote access to the data centers when
authorized users are outside the main office.
•DSX Door Access System – Access Control software to control authenticated user access to the data
center located in Chelmsford, MA.
People
Provdotnet's organization is designed around process ownership and the RACI model (“responsible-
accountable-consulted-informed”). Key personnel have overall process ownership responsibility for all
processes related to their area of responsibility. However, the RACI model enables all personnel to play
different roles depending upon the circumstance and core competencies. Formal policies and standards, which
are reviewed regularly, are in place and include: Information Security/Physical Access, System
Implementation for new/modifications to Customer Services, Changes to Infrastructure, and Customer
Incident Response and Help Desk. Policies and Standards are reviewed by Provdotnet and updated where
needed.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
11Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Personnel within the Provdotnet organization are as follows:
Key Roles in & Process Ownership
General Manager/Managing Partner
The General Manager/Managing Partner (“GM”) is responsible for setting the strategic direction of Provdotnet.
Primary responsibilities include:
• Business development;
• Regulatory management and the management of various strategic initiatives;
• Oversight of all business and technical operations relating to the daily operations of Provdotnet data
center(s); and
• Project supervision to ensure strict adherence to operating/business policies.
Director of Operations and Financial Controls
•
•
•
•
•
Responsible for the management of Accounting and Financial Controls;
Responsible for the oversight and performance of ongoing maintenance of all data center systems,
including but not limited to the following: critical infrastructure, real estate, vendor relations and access
systems;
Responsible for managing all customer related issues or problems as well as providing oversight and
management of all change activity;
Reports to the GM; and
Undergoes annual meeting to evaluate competency.
Chief Technology Officer
The Chief Technology Officer (“CTO”) reports to the General Manager/Managing Partner and is responsible for
the design, engineering and maintenance of Provdotnet’s internal systems as well as technical solutions for specific
customer requirements. Undergoes annual meeting to evaluate competency.
Director of Marketing and Business Development
The Director of Marketing and Business Development reports to the GM and is responsible for creating
strategies to generate business for Provdotnet. These range from SEO strategies to other marketing initiatives.
Responsible for developing relationships with new and existing clients to determine their needs and price out
solutions. Undergoes annual meeting to evaluate competency.
Provdotnet Contractor Support Staff
Reports directly to the CTO. Responsible for undertaking day to day operational tasks needed to advance
objectives set by the other members of the organization. The Support Staff are trained by the Director of
Operations to adhere to the protocols of the organization.
Advisory Board (Non-operating)
The Advisory Board consists of individuals who consult with the General Manager/Managing Partner, and
whose goal is to support the continued development of Provdotnet's business operations in order to meet the
expanding needs of new and existing customers.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
12Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Provdotnet's Advisory Board performs a non-operating governance role on behalf of Provdotnet's stakeholders.
The Advisory Board provides both technical and business advice to the General Manager/Managing Partner on
strategic aspects of Provdotnet's business. The Advisory Board participates in all capital expenditure discussions,
technical architecture, partnerships and strategic operations.
Procedures
Management has developed and communicated, to internal and external users, procedures to provide
businesses with highly secure, reliable and interconnected facilities for their infrastructure and service delivery
platforms. These procedures cover the following key Security and Availability commitments:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Selection, documentation and implementation of security controls
Performance of annual assessments of security controls
Authorization, changes to, and termination of physical and logical system access
Monitoring security controls
Management of access and roles
Maintenance and support of the security system
Incident response
Monitoring of critical power for continuous availability
2N+1 power design on all system levels (Utility, UPS, PDU's and rack distribution)
Environmental monitoring
Data
Data as defined by Provdotnet, constitutes the following:
•
•
•
•
•
Access reporting of physical locations
Critical power monitoring reports
Environmental asset status reports
Bandwidth use reports
Incident management reports
E. BOUNDARIES OF THE SYSTEM
The boundaries of Provdotnet's system are restricted to and by Services and Service Level targets
delivered to customers. Provdotnet provides environmentally sound, secure high availability
infrastructure facilities customers to host (co-locate) their computing, networking and data storage
equipment within Provdotnet’s purpose-built physically secure and high availability facilities.
Provdotnet does not provide any computing, data storage or application security services and does
not have access to customer data, other than monitoring-related metrics. As such, the boundaries
of the Provdotnet system are restricted to systems outlined within the Infrastructure description in
Section D. COMPONENTS OF THE SYSTEM.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
13Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
F.
RELEVANT ASPECTS OF THE CONTROL ENVIRONMENT, RISK ASSESSMENT PROCESS,
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, MONITORING AND CONTROL ACTIVITIES
Control Environment
Management Philosophy
Provdotnet's control environment reflects the philosophy of Senior Management concerning the
importance of providing its customers with highly secure, reliable and interconnected facilities for their
IT infrastructure and service delivery platforms. Provdotnet's key management meets periodically to
evaluate and address the ongoing business risks associated with meeting those commitments. The
importance of providing secure and available service is emphasized through the establishment and
communication of policies and procedures and is supported by investment in resources and people to
carry out its commitments. In designing its controls, Provdotnet has taken into consideration the
relevance of controls to meet the relevant trust services criteria.
Policies & Standards
Formal IT Policies and Standards are in place, including: Information Security/Physical Access, System
Implementation for new/modifications to Customer Services, Changes Infrastructure, Customer Incident
Response and Help Desk, and are distributed to Provdotnet employees. IT Policies and Standards are
reviewed by Provdotnet Management on an annual basis and updated, where needed.
Customer Contracts & Agreements
Standard Contracts and Agreements are in place between Provdotnet and its Customers which define
the colocation services and maintenance performed. Contracts and Agreements cover Customer specific
metrics, including: overall availability, Mean Time Between Failures (“MTBF”), Mean Time to
Recovery (MTTR), data center power, temperature, humidity and access control.
Physical Security
Provdotnet's colocation facilities resides in buildings owned by Steeltex Corporation, Toro Properties
and Altid Properties, respectively. Provdotnet maintains fifteen (15) year lease agreements with all three
(3): Steeltex Corporation for its colocation space, which is located on the first floor of the building; the
colocation space with Toro Properties is located on the 1st and 2nd floor and Altid Properties is in a
discrete unit in a single story building. The entrances required for escorted access to Provdotnet's
colocation facility is staffed by Provdotnet representatives who are stationed at the (lobby) entrance to
the building. The entrances required for unescorted access to Provdotnet's colocation facility are
controlled by biometric fingerprint readers located at the entrances to the respective buildings.
Physical Access to Colocation Facility
Access to the Provdotnet colocation hosting facilities are controlled by the following mechanisms:
•
•
Access to the main entrance to the Provdotnet colocation facility is controlled by proximity fobs.
Additionally, there is key access which is restricted to the Executive Management of Provdotnet.
Proximity fobs and biometrics are used to restrict access within the colocation facility, with
proximity fobs required for escorted access and proximity fobs and biometrics required for
unescorted access.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
14Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
•
•
•
Additional doors with secured access via mechanical keypads, lockbox/keys are utilized to
restrict and control access to private Customer suites.
Access to other non-Customer areas within the colocation facility are controlled by proximity
fobs, biometric readers as well as padlocks. This includes power and utility equipment.
Building keys for the main entrance to the colocation facility are issued to individuals per
authorization of management as part of the hiring process, and a list of who maintains these keys
is kept by management.
Physical Access to Customer Areas
Physical access to dedicated colocation facility customer areas is limited to authorized individuals,
including employees, contractors and vendors of Provdotnet. Individual customer equipment is
physically secured in a locked data center, and dedicated equipment cabinets and/or cages are available
to customers (upon request to Provdotnet) in order to further restrict access to customer equipment.
Visitor Access to Colocation Facility
To enter Provdotnet's main lobby, visitors are required to ring the bell and announce themselves to
Provdotnet personnel prior to being granted access to the main reception area. The main lobby acts as a
man trap to restrict access to the main colocation hosting facility.
Once within the main lobby, visitors are required to sign in, noting their company, arrival time, purpose
of their visit, and are required to present a photo ID at the security desk in the reception area. Visitors
must be escorted by authorized Provdotnet personnel to their destination and are supervised at all times
by Provdotnet personnel.
Authorizing Access to Customer Equipment
Access to Customer equipment must adhere to the following guidelines:
•
•
•
•
Equipment, information and/or software cannot be taken offsite without prior authorization from
the Customer.
A formal release form (authorized by Customer management) is required to gain physical access
to Customer areas.
Once access is authorized by the Customer, all access to Customer areas by non-Provdotnet
personnel is supervised by Provdotnet employees.
Customer access requests are sent from pre-authorized Customer representatives via email to
Provdotnet's Facilities Manager or General Manager/Managing Partner who will enable access.
Termination of Physical Access for Customers
Customer’s physical security deactivation requests are sent from pre-authorized Customer representatives
via email to the Provdotnet Facilities Manager, who will then disable or delete access rights within the
physical access control system. Provdotnet maintains access and termination requests on their Customer
Management System.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
15Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Monitoring of Physical Access:
The Provdotnet colocation facility is monitored by security cameras located at various points throughout
the building colocation hosting facility. The video feeds are accessible remotely over the web. Real time
(live) monitoring of camera coverage is performed by Provdotnet employee personnel. Video media
history is maintained for a minimum period of sixty (60) days.
Provdotnet personnel also performs daily walkthroughs of the colocation facilities during the work week,
as well as ongoing monitoring of video surveillance throughout each day and/ or when escorted access is
being provided.
Review of Physical Access
Security system access logs are generated and maintained electronically by the security system software
and are reviewed by the Provdotnet General Manager for unauthorized access attempts or unusual activity
as follows:
•
•
Access to the colocation facility (per incident both daily and weekly); and
Individual door access is reviewed by the Facilities Manager weekly and/or as needed.
In addition to the security logs, each alarm activation and deactivation creates an email alert that is
reviewed and maintained by Provdotnet.
Intruder Alarm System
An intruder alarm system is in place that is managed and monitored by a central alarm monitoring
company (Electronic Alarms Systems, Inc.). Colocation facility building doors and entrance points are
alarmed, and motion detectors are present at critical locations in the building and customer equipment
areas alert the central monitoring station.
Power Redundancy
The Provdotnet colocation facilities are equipped with electrical systems that provide N+1 redundancy
configurations. Power is provided to the Customer racks and/or cabinets via multiple separate Power
Distribution Units (“PDU”s).
Telecommunications Data & Voice Redundancy
There are multiple fiber links to the colocation facility and redundant data circuits are in place to re-
route data traffic in the event of a failure to a primary circuit.
In the event of a commercial power failure, redundant Uninterruptible Power Supply (“UPS”) units are
in place. UPS systems can receive power from both commercial power feeds and standby generators,
and are designed to provide power to a fully loaded colocation hosting facility until power can be
transferred to the on-site diesel generators.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
16Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Backup Power Generator
In the event of a commercial power failure, respective onsite 250, 350, 400, and 1000 KVA diesel
generators exist to provide power to the colocation hosting facility. Upon detection of a power outage,
automatic switchover from commercial power to the standby generator is handled by a transfer switch
and the UPS system - to ensure that there are no disruptions to customer equipment. A multi-day supply
(approximately eight-ten (8-10) days under full load) of diesel fuel is securely stored on-site and is
backed by guaranteed fuel delivery by local fuel suppliers.
Maintenance & Testing of Power Redundant Systems
Semi-annual maintenance (including annual load testing) is performed on both the UPS units as well as
the diesel generator to ensure functionality by the Facilities Manager. The diesel generators are also
exercised weekly.
Fire Suppression & Detection
An air sampling smoke detection system and conventional fire detection devices are in place within the
colocation hosting facilities. The colocation hosting facilities are also equipped with a dry pipe - pre-
action fire suppression system.
Climate Control
The colocation hosting facilities are equipped with Computer Room Air Conditioning (“CRAC”) units
to meet N+1 redundancy requirements. The colocation hosting facility aims to provide air conditioning
to maintain the cold aisle temperature at 73 +/- 5 degrees Fahrenheit with 35% +/- 5% humidity.
Maintenance is performed on CRAC units at least on an annual basis by an outside contractor.
Environmental Monitoring
Monitoring sensors are configured to automatically notify a third party and Provdotnet technicians via
email alerts, and audible and visual alarm, should any adverse temperature and/or humidity conditions
occur outside of the configured range.
The building's environmental conditions (i.e., climate control components) are monitored utilizing APC and
Liebert environmental monitoring systems which are configured to automatically notify Provdotnet
technicians via email and/or text message should adverse conditions arise.
Water Detection Devices
Water detection devices are located in the colocation facilities to alert Provdotnet Management via email in
the event of a potential flood condition occurring.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
17Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Help Desk System
The Zendesk system and/or Help and System Support Desk Associates record, track, monitor and resolve
all Customer related incidents by priority (i.e., High, Medium or Low), per customer contracts and
agreements. This is performed in one of two ways: (1) either customer problems are submitted through the
customer support portal, automatically creating problem tickets within Provdotnet’s Help Desk system; or,
(2) customers call the Help Desk support line generating a notification to a Provdotnet Help Desk and System
Support Desk Associate, who in turn completes a Help Desk ticket within Provdotnet’s Help Desk system.
Alerts generated by internal monitoring systems are reviewed and managed by Provdotnet Help Desk and
System Support Desk Associate personnel. They set up tickets on the Help Desk System based on their
Assessment of the alerts generated.
Performance Monitoring
Open Source Security Information Management (PRTG Monitoring) is used by Provdotnet, and is a collection
of tools designed to aid network administrators in incident management, computer security, intrusion
detection and prevention.
The internal network is monitored using PRTG Monitoring for server health, uptime, performance, resource
issues, bandwidth and disk. Alerts generated by the systems are forwarded through the Help Desk to a
Provdotnet Help and System Support Desk Associate for review and follow-up.
Remote Hands Services
Provdotnet offers "Remote Hands Services" in their colocation hosting facility for their Customers. Remote
Hands Services includes basic on-site first-line maintenance and support, but may be expanded to include
more advanced services on an individual case-by-case basis. These services include:
•
•
•
Visual inspection of devices to assess equipment status;
Rebooting routers, servers or other Customer equipment - where the Customer provides written
directions for the Provdotnet technician; and
Disconnecting systems from the network in the event of a network security event.
Only pre-authorized Provdotnet Customer representatives can request and approve Remote Hands Services.
Remote Hands Services are performed by the Provdotnet Help and System Support Desk Associate under the
direction of the Customer.
Remote Access
Pulse VPN is used to provide secure access to remote PCs and Servers for end-user support from other
locations.
Customer Support
If a Help and System Support Desk Associate is unable to perform Remote Hands Service requests
immediately, the Customer will be notified and the services will be scheduled to be performed once the
Associate becomes available. Remote Hands Service requests are queued and monitored for timely response.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
18Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Intrusion Detection System
Intrusion Detection Systems are in place to detect and report unusual activity on the network. Alerts are sent
out to a designated Provdotnet Help and System Support Desk Associate for any significant threats detected.
Issues requiring remediation are logged in the Help Desk System for follow-up and review.
Cable & Wire Management
Cables and wires connected to computer equipment and peripherals within the colocation facility are placed
out of the way of normal traffic. The cabling is located within a conduit routed above the floor.
Logical Security
Firewall & Routers
Provdotnet’s internal networks are protected by a failover cluster of Juniper Networks SSG320M firewalls
and Intrusion Detection Devices which serve to protect our core network. Routing is handled by redundant
Cisco ASR edge routers paired with high availability enabled Cisco 6509 routing cores. These provide for
proper redundancy and automated failover for the connections to our internal network.
Provdotnet Facilities Management technical staff is responsible for managing and maintaining firewalls and
routers protecting colocation hosting facilities from external attacks. User authentication, via a user ID and
password, is required prior to gaining access to perform changes to network configurations. Changes to the
firewall are maintained and auto-logged in the firewall management system. Provdotnet has a policy whereby
the change is documented in the Help Desk system and a copy of the configuration file (prior to the change)
is archived.
Change Management
Minor Infrastructure Changes
Minor infrastructure changes are documented via a Ticket in the Help Desk System and require formal
authorization from the General Manager and Managing Partner. The Ticket includes concurrence (i.e., the
authorization) from the Customer and Provdotnet operations, and a description of the change.
Major Infrastructure Changes
Major infrastructure changes are documented via a ticket in the Help Desk System and require formal
authorization and approval from the General Manager and Managing Partner. The Ticket includes
concurrence (i.e., the authorization) from the Customer and Provdotnet operations, and includes a detailed
description of the change, back out plans, evidence of testing, post-implementation approval, and evidence
that the change was properly made.
Other Considerations
Provdotnet maintains business loss and liability insurance coverage.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
19Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Risk Assessment
Provdotnet Management and supervisory personnel regularly review the risks that may threaten the
achievement of criteria for the Security and Availability principles set forth in TSP 100, Trust Services
Principles and Criteria for Security, Availability Processing Integrity, Confidentiality and Privacy (AICPA,
Trust Services Principles and Criteria). Key members of Management assess risks surrounding Security and
Availability on an ongoing basis through regular readiness assessment meetings, where actual and perceived
vulnerabilities are addressed and remediated, as necessary.
Monitoring
Provdotnet Management and supervisory personnel monitor the quality of internal control performance via
frequent observance, interaction and performance of their assigned duties. Reporting of any deficiencies noted
from ongoing monitoring of processes and procedures, are communicated to the relevant management
personnel.
Provdotnet's activities are subject to review by the Management team. The Management team evaluates
compliance with policy and regulations, and the Board of Directors is consulted as to both strategic, operational
issues and technical issues at least once per quarter.
Information and Communication
Changes that impact customers, employees and stakeholders are communicated through formal
correspondence and electronic press/email releases issued by the Company. Provdotnet holds an annual
training session to communicate and reinforce the adherence of organizational procedures and policies as
provided in the annual operations control document and the potential consequences of non-adherence. Also,
Provdotnet regularly assesses and addresses their readiness and ability to deliver on their commitments of
Security and Availability, by holding periodic meetings to ensure all systems are operating effectively and all
corrective measures occur in a timely manner. Customer complaints/requests are managed through an
automated ticket system and followed through to completion.
Control Activities
Control activities are part of the process by which Provdotnet achieves its business objectives. Provdotnet has
applied a risk management approach to the organization in order to select and develop control activities.
Provdotnet’s control objectives and related control activities included in Section V, “Description of Controls”
of this report are designed to eliminate the redundancy that would result from listing the items in this section
and repeating them in Section V. Although the control criteria and related control activities are included in
Section IV, they are, nevertheless, an integral part of Provdotnet’s system description.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
20Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
G. SUBSERVICE ORGANIZATIONS
Provdotnet uses the following subservice organizations in the delivery of its Colocation and Managed Services
System to its customers:
Code42 Software, Inc. – Provdotnet utilizes Code42 Software, Inc. for cloud-based endpoint data security and
recovery services.
Zendesk – Zendesk is a cloud-based software as a service provider for client help desk ticket support.
Intuit, Inc. – Provdotnet utilizes Intuit, Inc. (QuickBooks Online) for accounting software services including
the manual processing of credit card transactions
Microsoft Office 365 – Provdotnet utilizes Microsoft (Office 365) for office productivity, email and document
management services.
Provdotnet's subservice organizations are outside of the scope of this examination and report. The TSP criteria
impacted by the subservice organizations, either in totality or in conjunction with Provdotnet Advantage
SuiteTM controls are listed in the chart on the following pages.
Where available, Provdotnet, LLC regularly receives Service Organization Control (“SOC”) reports for these
organizations and reviews the impact of these reports on its overall internal control environment in addition to
other vendor management procedures.
The TSP criteria impacted by the subservice organizations, either in totality or in conjunction with
Provdotnet’s controls, are listed in the chart on the following pages:
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
21Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
TSP
Criteria
CC6.1
CC6.2
CC6.3
CC6.6
CC6.7
A1.2
A1.3
Description
The entity implements logical access security software, infrastructure, and
architectures over protected information assets to protect them from security events to
meet the entity's objectives.
Prior to issuing system credentials and granting system access, the entity registers and
authorizes new internal and external users whose access is administered by the entity.
For those users whose access is administered by the entity, user system credentials are
removed when user access is no longer authorized.
The entity authorizes, modifies, or removes access to data, software, functions, and
other protected information assets based on roles, responsibilities, or the system design
and changes, giving consideration to the concepts of least privilege and segregation of
duties, to meet the entity’s objectives.
The entity implements logical access security measures to protect against threats from
sources outside its system boundaries.
The entity restricts the transmission, movement, and removal of information to
authorized internal and external users and processes, and protects it during
transmission, movement, or removal to meet the entity’s objectives.
The entity authorizes, designs, develops or acquires, implements, operates, approves,
maintains, and monitors environmental protections, software, data backup processes,
and recovery infrastructure to meet its objectives.
The entity tests recovery plan procedures supporting system recovery to meet its
objectives.
Code42
Software,
Inc.ZendeskIntuit, Inc.Microsoft
Office 365
XXXX
XXXX
XXXX
XXXX
XXXX
XXXX
XXXX
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and
business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
22Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Subservice Organization Complementary Controls
Provdotnet obtains and reviews the annual Service Organization Control (“SOC”) examinations of those
entities that undergo SOC examinations. In addition, as part of its Risk Management process, Provdotnet
performs a comprehensive vendor management review of each of its subservice organizations to assess their
capabilities to address the Provdotnet business needs and its requirements for Security and Availability.
The subservice organizations are expected to have the following complementary controls in providing services
to Provdotnet:
Code42 Software, Inc., Zendesk, Intuit, Inc., Microsoft Office 365
As cloud solution providers, these vendors are expected to have industry standard, best practice controls
governing the following aspects of their operations:
•
•
•
•
•
Logical access controls into its environment,
Physical access controls over the infrastructure interfacing with Provdotnet,
Monitoring controls over their respective environments, including intrusion detection and inspection
(as applicable) and network performance controls,
Disaster recovery policies and procedures, and
Other policies governing operations.
H. COMPLIMENTARY USER ENTITY CONTROL CONSIDERATIONS
In order for Provdotnet Customer's to benefit from the controls described in this report, Customer's must
determine whether the following controls are in place and functioning. Furthermore, the following list of
controls addresses only those controls relating to Provdotnet's Colocation and Managed Services. This
list is not intended to be a complete listing of the controls that provide a basis for the assertions underlying
Provdotnet's Colocation and Managed Services.
Provdotnet customers, through their agreements with Provdotnet, have selected unique levels of services,
and therefore, not all Customer user control considerations may apply to each Customer user
organization.
Colocation and managed services customers are expected to establish the following controls and ensure
they are operating effectively. (These controls are intended to cover any and all customer provided
equipment, including but not limited to: UPS, fans, other mechanical and electrical equipment, and computer
and networking systems):
1. Customer user organizations are responsible for understanding and complying with their contractual
obligations to Provdotnet and monitoring adherence to Contracts and Agreements maintained with
Provdotnet.
2. Customer user organizations are responsible for managing and controlling logical access to their
systems.
3. Customer user organizations are responsible for determining whether Provdotnet's security
infrastructure is appropriate for its needs and for notifying Provdotnet of requested modifications.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
23Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
4. Customer user organizations are responsible for adhering to Provdotnet's security procedures and
informing their affected vendors and/or subcontractors of their related responsibilities.
5. Where customer user organizations provide their own or leased equipment, user organizations are
responsible for ensuring their own equipment and resident data is secured, including physical
precautions such as locked cabinets. Provdotnet assumes security only for Provdotnet systems,
information and equipment.
6. Customer user organizations have the option of providing their own UPS equipment, if not contracted
through Provdotnet for use of its UPS equipment. When stated in the Contract, Customer user
organizations are responsible to maintain the appropriate type and level of insurance to cover damage
and/or loss of their own equipment, software and data.
7. Customer User organizations are responsible for informing Provdotnet in a timely manner of any
security, confidentiality and regulatory requirements, which include, but are not limited to:
HIPAA/HITECH and Payment Card Industry (PCI) standards which may affect the services provided
by Provdotnet. Customer user organizations are responsible to promptly notify Provdotnet of changes
made to technical or administrative contact information.
8. Customer user organizations are responsible for maintaining and providing Provdotnet with an
updated list of authorized personnel, vendors and contractors.
9. Customer user organizations are responsible to promptly notify Provdotnet in writing to remove
terminated employees who are authorized to either direct service changes or to anyone with access to
Provdotnet colocation facilities.
10. Customer user organizations are responsible for ensuring that only authorized individuals have
knowledge of their designated personal identification credentials, authentication questions, and all
other information with an assigned account.
11. Customer user organizations are responsible for maintaining their own system(s) of record.
12. Customer user organizations are responsible for developing their own business continuity and disaster
recovery plans that address their inability to access or utilize Provdotnet.
13. Customer user organizations are responsible for ensuring the security and integrity of any data or
information in storage and/or transmitted via their service or over the Internet (e.g., encryption
controls). Provdotnet does not maintain access customer data.
14. Customer user organizations are responsible for ensuring that adequate mechanisms are in place to
monitor and protect information passing through their network. Customer user organizations are
responsible for using their own series of firewalls and routers to provide additional protection.
15. Customer user organizations are responsible for developing policies and procedures to protect their
systems from unauthorized or unintentional use, modification, addition or deletion.
16. Customer user organizations are responsible for creating and communicating specific escalation
procedures to Provdotnet for problems to their network hosts and services, and are responsible for
notifying Provdotnet of any changes to escalation procedures in a timely ma n n e r .
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
24Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
17. Customer user organizations are responsible for implementing their own access and password controls
for their infrastructure and ensuring the confidentiality of any user IDs and passwords. Provdotnet
does not maintain access to customer user organization infrastructure.
18. Customer user organizations are responsible for ensuring that the impact of scheduled maintenance
activities to their production processes and jobs is sufficiently mitigated.
19. Customer user organizations are responsible for notifying or denying requested infrastructure
configuration changes in a timely manner.
20. Customer user organizations are responsible for notifying Provdotnet of suspected or actual network
or service problems in a timely manner.
21. Outside of contracted monitoring services of Customer user organizations are responsible for
implementing monitoring controls to detect and alert the customer user organization of known
and/or suspected security breaches or other incidents (e.g., power failure) affecting service(s), or
supporting infrastructure either provided by Provdotnet or the Customer user organization. If a
security breach and/or incident occur, the Customer user organization is responsible for
communicating such events to the appropriate personnel in a timely manner.
I. TRUST SERVICES CRITERIA AND RELATED CONTROLS
Although the trust services criteria and related controls are presented in Section V, “Description of Controls”,
they are an integral part of the Provdotnet system description.
J. CHANGES TO THE SYSTEM DURING THE PERIOD
There were no changes that are likely to affect report users’ understanding of how the Colocation and Managed
Services System is used to provide the service as of June 30, 2020.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
25Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
V. DESCRIPTION OF CONTROLS
A. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ EXAMINATION
This report on controls placed in operation is intended to provide interested parties with sufficient information
regarding the security and control structure of Provdotnet’s services and to provide information about the
effectiveness of the design of controls. This report, when combined with an understanding of the controls at
user organizations, is intended to permit an evaluation of the internal controls surrounding the security of
Provdotnet’s systems and may potentially reduce user organization auditors’ assessed level of control risk
below the maximum for certain management assertions.
This report, when coupled with an understanding of the controls in place at user entities of Provdotnet, is
intended to assist in the assessment of the total internal control surrounding user entity applications.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements and guidance established in AT-C section
105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements and AT-C Section 205, Examination Engagements
and in accordance with guidance from the AICPA for the performance and reporting on Service Organization
Control (“SOC”) reports, “Reporting on Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security, Availability,
Processing Integrity, Confidentiality, or Privacy” (“SOC 2 Reports”).
It is each interested party’s responsibility to evaluate this information in relation to the controls in place to
obtain an overall understanding of the internal controls and assess control risk. The portions of the controls
provided by the user entities and Provdotnet must be evaluated together. If effective user entity controls are
not in place, Provdotnet controls may not compensate for such weaknesses.
Our examination included discussions with appropriate management, supervisory, and staff personnel, and
inspection of documents and records relative to the Trust Services Security and Availability principles and
criteria.
Provdotnet’s description of controls is the responsibility of Provdotnet management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion that the controls are in place to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the
controls specified by Provdotnet were adequate in their design as of the report date.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
26Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
B.
APPLICABLE TRUST SERVICES CRITERIA RELEVANT TO SECURITY
Control Environment
CC1.1
The entity demonstrates a commitment to integrity and ethical values.
TSC
Reference
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Number
CC1.1.1
Management monitors personnel compliance with the code of conduct through processes that are covered in the annual
operations overview and control document. The sanctions policy is applied to personnel who violate the code of
conduct.
CC1.1.2Personnel are required to read and accept the code of conduct and practices upon their hire and to formally reaffirm
them annually thereafter.
CC1.1.3Agreements are established with third parties or subcontractors that include clearly defined terms, conditions, and
responsibilities for third parties and subcontractors.
CC1.1.4Prior to employment, new hires are verified against regulatory screening databases and/or are sanctioned by
owner/family member.
CC1.2The Board of Directors demonstrates independence from management and exercises oversight of the development
and performance of internal control.
TSC
Control
Criteria
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
CC1.2.1The board of directors identifies and accepts its oversight responsibilities in relation to established requirements and
expectations.
CC1.2.2The board of directors defines, maintains, and periodically evaluates the skills and expertise needed among its members
to enable them to ask probing questions of senior management and take commensurate action.
CC1.2.3The board of directors has sufficient members who are independent from management and objective in evaluations and
decision making.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
27Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
CC1.3
Management establishes, with board oversight, structures, reporting lines, and appropriate authorities and
responsibilities in the pursuit of objectives.
TSC
Control
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Criteria
CC1.3.1 Provdotnet has an organizational chart and job descriptions in place to ensure that the Company has assigned
responsibility, accountability and reporting lines for system Security and Availability. The entity evaluates its
organizational structure, reporting lines, authorities, and responsibilities as part of its yearly operational review and as
part of its ongoing risk assessment and management process. The entity revises these when necessary to help meet
changing commitments and system requirements.
CC1.3.2Roles and accountability are defined through formal job descriptions. Roles and responsibilities are defined in written
job descriptions and communicated to managers and their supervisors.
CC1.3.3Provdotnet, LLC management and the Board of Directors evaluate its organizational structure, reporting lines,
authorities, and responsibilities as part of its business planning process and as part of its ongoing risk assessment and
management process and revise these when necessary to support the achievement of objectives.
CC1.3.4Provdotnet, LLC has an appropriate organizational structure based on functional departments, with an executive leader
heading each department.
CC1.4The entity demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop, and retain competent individuals in alignment with
objectives.
TSC
Control
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Criteria
CC1.4.1 Job requirements are documented in the job descriptions, and candidates’ abilities to meet these requirements are
evaluated as part of the hiring and annual performance review. During its ongoing and periodic business planning and
budgeting process, Management evaluates the need for additional tools and resources in order to achieve its business
objectives.
CC1.4.2Management establishes requisite skill sets for personnel and provides continued training about its commitments and
requirements for personnel.
CC1.4.3During its ongoing and periodic business planning and budgeting process, Management evaluates the need for
additional tools and resources in order to achieve its business objectives.
CC1.5The entity holds individuals accountable for their internal control responsibilities in the pursuit of objectives.
TSC
Control
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Criteria
CC1.5.1 Roles and responsibilities are defined in written job descriptions. Job descriptions are reviewed on a periodic basis for
needed changes and updated if such changes are identified. Candidates’ abilities to meet these requirements are
evaluated as part of the hiring and annual performance review.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
28Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Communication and Information
CC2.1
TSC
Control
Criteria
The entity obtains or generates and uses relevant, quality information to support the functioning of internal control.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
CC2.1.1On a weekly basis, senior management meets to discuss and document operational procedures and their impact on
achieving the Security and Availability commitments of Provdotnet.
CC2.1.2Provdotnet communicates to its staff the policies and procedures regarding the design and operation of the system and
its boundaries to permit them to understand their role in the system. These policies and procedures are available to staff
via an online document repository for them to access at any time.
CC2.1.3The boundaries of the systems have been defined and included in the network diagram which is available to all
employees (and customers, if requested).
CC2.1.4The building's environmental conditions (i.e., climate control components) are monitored utilizing APC and Liebert
environmental monitoring systems which are configured to automatically notify Provdotnet technicians via email and/or
text message should adverse conditions arise.
CC2.1.5The internal network is monitored using PRTG Monitoring for server health, uptime, performance, resource issues,
bandwidth and disk. Alerts generated by the systems are forwarded through the Help Desk to a Provdotnet Help and
System Support Desk Associate for review and follow-up.
CC2.1.6The network firewall incorporates IDS/IPS, Antivirus, Web Filtering and Malware detection utilities to monitor external
access attempts to the Provdotnet environment.
CC2.2The entity internally communicates information, including objectives and responsibilities for internal control,
necessary to support the functioning of internal control.
TSC
Control
Criteria
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
CC2.2.1Provdotnet communicates to its staff the policies and procedures regarding the design and operation of the system and
its boundaries to permit them to understand their role in the system. These policies and procedures are available to staff
via an online document repository for them to access at any time.
CC2.2.2Provdotnet has written job descriptions specifying the responsibilities and requirements for key job positions,
specifically for personnel responsible for the design, development, implementation, and operation of systems affecting
the Security and Availability of services.
CC2.2.3Security awareness training related to Security and Availability is performed annually for all employees including new
hires.
CC2.2.4Provdotnet communicates policies which address system Security and Availability as well as employee responsibilities
during the onboarding process of new employees through the employee Operations Runbook and initial orientation
training.
CC2.2.5Provdotnet communicates to its staff the procedures for identifying and reporting Security and Availability issues,
potential breaches and other related incidents in accordance with its Incident Response Policy. The security awareness
training and Incident Response Policy includes information concerning the identification of issues and the point of
contact in the event of a breach.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
29Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
CC2.3
TSC
Control
Criteria
The entity communicates with external parties regarding matters affecting the functioning of internal control.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
CC2.3.1Vendors and third parties with restricted access that engage in business with Provdotnet are subject to confidentiality
commitments as part of their agreements with Provdotnet. The agreements communicate information regarding the
responsibilities of critical vendors/contractors through Vendor Agreements/Contracts.
CC2.3.2Provdotnet completes a Vendor Assessment Questionnaire for each of its vendors to assess the internal controls that are
in place for each vendor.
CC2.3.3Provdotnet communicates to its customers its service commitments related to Security and Availability in an executed
Service Agreement which includes provisions on both parties’ responsibility over the security and confidentiality of
information.
CC2.3.4Provdotnet provides publicly available mechanisms for external parties to contact Provdotnet to report security events
and publishes information including a system description and security and compliance information addressing
Provdotnet commitments and responsibilities.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
30Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Risk Assessment
CC3.1
TSC
Control
Criteria
The entity specifies objectives with sufficient clarity to enable the identification and assessment of risks relating to
objectives.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
CC3.1.1The Provdotnet Board of Directors regularly meets to review and define company objectives relative to choice of
structure, industry trends and the performance of Provdotnet.
CC3.1.2The Board of Directors establish objectives that reflect the desired level of operations and financial performance.
CC3.1.3Management establishes objectives consistent with laws and regulations or standards and frameworks consistent with
its managed hosting operations.
CC3.1.4Provdotnet integrates applicable federal, state and local laws into its compliance objectives.
CC3.1.5Provdotnet maintains a formal risk assessment process to govern its operations and performs a risk assessment
continuously.
CC3.2The entity identifies risks to the achievement of its objectives across the entity and analyzes risks as a basis for
determining how the risks should be managed.
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC3.2.1
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Provdotnet has developed system security measures that help to identify threats that may arise, including threats from
vendors and third parties.
CC3.2.2Provdotnet has defined and implemented a formal risk management process that specifies risk tolerances and the
process for evaluating risks based on identified threats and the specified tolerances.
CC3.2.3During the risk assessment and management process, risk management personnel identify changes to business
objectives, commitments and requirements, internal operations, and external factors that threaten the achievement of
business objectives and update the potential threats to system objectives. In response to the identification of such risks,
Management updates its policies, procedures, processes and controls, as needed.
CC3.2.4The Risk and Controls group's recommendations are reviewed and approved by senior management. An owner is
assigned for each remediation plan in risk assessments.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
31Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
CC3.3
The entity considers the potential for fraud in assessing risks to the achievement of objectives.
TSC
Control
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Criteria
CC3.3.1
Provdotnet has a Vendor Risk Management policy that has developed system security measures that help to identify
threats that may arise, including threats from vendors and third parties. Provdotnet completes a Vendor Assessment
Questionnaire for each of its vendors to assess the threats that might be present with each vendor.
CC3.3.2During the risk assessment and management process, risk management personnel identify changes to business
objectives, commitments and requirements, internal operations, and external factors that threaten the achievement of
business objectives and update the potential threats to system objectives. In response to the identification of such risks,
Management updates its policies, procedures, processes and controls, as needed.
CC3.3.3The entity has defined and implemented a formal risk management process that specifies risk tolerances and the process
for evaluating risks based on identified threats and the specified tolerances.
CC3.3.4The Risk and Controls group's recommendations are reviewed and approved by senior management. An owner is
assigned for each remediation plan in risk assessments.
CC3.4The entity identifies and assesses changes that could significantly impact the system of internal control.
TSC
Control
Criteria
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
CC3.4.1Provdotnet’s risk management processes considers changes to the regulatory, economic, and physical environment in
which it operates.
CC3.4.2Provdotnet’s risk management process considers the potential impacts of new or changes to existing business lines,
changes in relationships with vendors and the introduction of new technologies.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
32Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Monitoring Activities
CC4.1
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC4.1.1
The entity selects, develops, and performs ongoing and/or separate evaluations to ascertain whether the components
of internal control are present and functioning.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Provdotnet has a formal Hardware and Infrastructure Monitoring Standards policy that delineates various hardening
standards and comprehensive monitoring processes for security of the data centers.
CC4.1.2Monitoring sensors are configured to automatically notify a third party and Provdotnet technicians via email
alerts, and audible and visual alarm, should any adverse temperature and/or humidity conditions occur outside of
the configured range.
CC4.1.3Provdotnet utilizes PRTG as its Data Center Infrastructure Management (“DCIM”) tool which continuously monitors
all environmental elements and customer traffic in the data centers.
CC4.1.4Provdotnet personnel perform daily walkthroughs of the colocation facilities during the work week, as well as
ongoing monitoring of video surveillance throughout each day and/ or when escorted access is being provided.
CC4.2The entity evaluates and communicates internal control deficiencies in a timely manner to those parties responsible
for taking corrective action, including senior management and the Board of Directors, as appropriate.
TSC
Control
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Criteria
CC4.2.1 Provdotnet has an Incident response program designed to minimize the impact of incidents and protect resources.
CC4.2.2Data Center Management review weekly events/issues impacting operations and develop corrective actions, as
appropriate, to address these items.
CC4.2.3The Board of Directors evaluates internal control deficiencies in a timely manner as appropriate.
CC4.2.4Monitoring sensors are configured to automatically notify a third party and Provdotnet technicians via email alerts, and
audible and visual alarm, should any adverse temperature and/or humidity conditions occur outside of the configured
range.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
33Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Control Activities
CC5.1
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC5.1.1
The entity selects and develops control activities that contribute to the mitigation of risks to the achievement of
objectives to acceptable levels.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Provdotnet develops control activities to mitigate risks identified in its Risk Assessment based upon the environment,
complexity, nature, and scope of its operations.
CC5.1.2Control activities are developed to mitigate the risks associated with physical access to the data center and achievement
of objectives relative to the service commitments of Provdotnet to its customers.
CC5.2The entity also selects and develops general control activities over technology to support the achievement of objectives.
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC5.2.1
CC5.2.2
CC5.3
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
The Provdotnet Hardware and Infrastructure Monitoring Standards policy sets forth control activities relevant to the
infrastructure and security monitoring processes over the data center environments.
Provdotnet has a formal disaster recovery plan that sets forth operational procedures to implement in the event of a
disaster affecting Provdotnet at any or all of Provdotnet’s operating locations.
The entity deploys control activities through policies that establish what is expected and in procedures that put
policies into action.
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC5.3.1
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Provdotnet management establishes control activities through policies and procedures that establish expectations and
relevant day-to-day operational processes. These policies and procedures include:
•
•
•
•
•
•
Change Management
Annual Operations and Control
Incident Response
Hardware and Infrastructure Hardening and Monitoring
Disaster Recovery
Operations Runbook
CC5.3.2Provdotnet management has assigned responsibility and accountability for control activities with the Director of
Financial and Data Center Operations.
CC5.3.3Provdotnet management annually evaluates the competency of personnel assigned with responsibility and accountability
for control activities.
CC5.3.4Policies and procedures governing control activities are reviewed annually to determine their continued relevance and
are updated as business operations warrant.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
34Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Logical and Physical Access Controls
CC6.1
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC6.1.1
The entity implements logical access security software, infrastructure, and architectures over protected
information assets to protect them from security events to meet the entity's objectives.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Established entity standards exist for infrastructure and software hardening and configuration that include
requirements for implementation of access control software, entity process standards and standardized access control
lists.
CC6.1.2System scans are performed for infrastructure elements to identify variance from entity standards. Intrusion detection
systems are in place to detect and report unusual activity in the system. Alerts are sent out to Help and System Support
Desk associates, issues requiring remediation are logged in the help desk system for follow‐up and review.
CC6.1.3Only internal users can access the system remotely through the use of the VPN, secure sockets layer (“SSL”), or other
encrypted communication system.
CC6.1.4Password complexity standards are established to enforce control over access control software passwords.
CC6.1.5Administrative accounts are set up, as needed, and the user administration function is segregated for managing
privileged accounts.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
35Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
CC6.2
Prior to issuing system credentials and granting system access, the entity registers and authorizes new internal and
external users whose access is administered by the entity. For those users whose access is administered by the entity,
user system credentials are removed when user access is no longer authorized.
TSC
Control
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Criteria
CC6.2.1 Entity standards are established for infrastructure and software hardening and configuration that include requirements
for implementation of access control software, entity process standards, and standardized access control lists.
CC6.2.2Accounts and access controls are delineated by user roles and access to other systems is restricted without management
notifications and approval.
CC6.2.3Only internal users can access the system remotely through the use of the VPN, secure sockets layer (“SSL”), or other
encrypted communication system.
CC6.2.4Password complexity standards are established to enforce control over access control software passwords.
CC6.2.5Administrative accounts are set up, as needed, and the user administration function is segregated for managing privileged
accounts.
CC6.3The entity authorizes, modifies, or removes access to data, software, functions, and other protected information assets
based on roles, responsibilities, or the system design and changes, giving consideration to the concepts of least privilege
and segregation of duties, to meet the entity’s objectives.
TSC
Control
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Criteria
CC6.3.1 When possible, formal role‐based access controls to limit access to the system and infrastructure components are created
and enforced by the access control system.
CC6.3.2User access requests for a specific role are approved by the user's manager and submitted for approval to the appropriate
operation director/owner according to the change management process. Segregation of duties exists between individuals
who request access, authorize access, grant access, and review access.
CC6.3.3Roles are reviewed and updated by both asset owners and the Risk and Controls group on an annual basis. Access change
requests resulting from the review are submitted to the security group via a change request record.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
36Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
CC6.4
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC6.4.1
The entity restricts physical access to facilities and protected information assets (for example, data center facilities,
backup media storage, and other sensitive locations) to authorized personnel to meet the entity’s objectives.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
An access control system has been implemented within the perimeter of facilities and at the entry and exit points of
sensitive areas within these facilities. The access control system includes a combination of fob and fingerprint readers
as well as secured cages and cabinets.
CC6.4.2Guests to the facility are required to sign in and show a form of identification. They are also escorted at all times
throughout the facility.
CC6.4.3Access cards are created during the workforce member orientation period and distributed after all required background
investigations are completed. Access cards initially provide access only to areas that fall within one’s responsibilities.
CC6.4.4Access to sensitive areas is controlled through the fob and biometric reader systems. Requests for access must be
approved by the owner of the sensitive area. Requests for access and changes to access are made, approved, and
communicated through the change management record system.
CC6.5The entity discontinues logical and physical protections over physical assets only after the ability to read or recover
data and software from those assets has been diminished and is no longer required to meet the entity’s objectives.
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC6.5.1
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
An access control system has been implemented within the perimeter of facilities and at the entry and exit points of
sensitive areas within these facilities. The access control system includes a combination of fob and fingerprint readers
as well as secured cages and cabinets.
CC6.5.2Guests to the facility are required to sign in and show a form of identification. They are also escorted at all times
throughout the facility.
CC6.5.3Access cards are created during the workforce member orientation period and distributed after all required background
investigations are completed. Access cards initially provide access only to areas that fall within one’s responsibilities.
CC6.5.4Access to sensitive areas is controlled through the fob and biometric reader systems. Requests for access must be
approved by the owner of the sensitive area. Requests for access and changes to access are made, approved, and
communicated through the change management record system.
CC6.5.5Logical access to system resources is removed upon an individual’s separation from the Company.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
37Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
CC6.6
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC6.6.1
The entity implements logical access security measures to protect against threats from sources outside its system
boundaries.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Defined entity standards exist for infrastructure and software hardening and configuration that include requirements
for implementation of access control software, entity configuration standards, and standardized access control lists
that define which privileges are attributable to each user or system account.
CC6.6.2External points of connectivity to the entity’s internal network are protected by a firewall complex, network
segmentation, and several layers of defense to prevent unauthorized external users from gaining access to the
organization's internal systems and devices.
CC6.6.3Firewall hardening standards are based on relevant applicable technical specifications that are compared against
product and industry recommended practices and updated as required by business needs.
CC6.6.4External access to nonpublic sites is restricted through the use of user authentication and message encryption systems
such as VPN and SSL.
CC6.7The entity restricts the transmission, movement, and removal of information to authorized internal and external
users and processes, and protects it during transmission, movement, or removal to meet the entity’s objectives.
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC6.7.1
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
VPN, SSL, secure file transfer program (“SFTP”), or other encryption technologies are used for defined points of
connectivity and to protect communications between the processing center and users connecting to the processing
center from within or external to the entity's internal networks.
CC6.7.2Entity policies prohibit the transmission of sensitive information over the Internet or other public communications
paths (for example, email) unless it is encrypted.
CC6.7.3Backup media are encrypted during creation.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
38Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
CC6.8
The entity implements controls to prevent or detect and act upon the introduction of unauthorized or malicious
software to meet the entity’s objectives.
TSC
Control
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Criteria
CC6.8.1 Intrusion detection systems are in place to detect and report unusual activity on the network.
CC6.8.2Anti-virus software is installed on workstations, laptops, and servers supporting such software. The anti-virus program
covers any piece of hardware that may be accessing the network, both internally and externally.
CC6.8.3Anti-virus software is configured to receive an updated virus signature.
System Operations
CC7.1
TSC
Control
Criteria
To meet its objectives, the entity uses detection and monitoring procedures to identify (1) changes to configurations
that result in the introduction of new vulnerabilities, and (2) susceptibilities to newly discovered vulnerabilities.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
CC7.1.1Defined entity standards exist for infrastructure and software hardening and configuration that include requirements for
implementation of access control software, entity configuration standards, and standardized access control lists that
define which privileges are attributable to each user or system account.
CC7.1.2The entity monitors infrastructure and software for noncompliance with the standards, which could threaten the
achievement of the entity's objectives.
CC7.1.3Procedures are in place to detect the introduction of unknown or unauthorized components.
CC7.1.4The network firewall incorporates IDS/IPS, Antivirus, Web Filtering and Malware detection utilities to monitor external
access attempts to the Provdotnet environment.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
39Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
CC7.2
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC7.2.1
The entity monitors system components and the operation of those components for anomalies that are indicative of
malicious acts, natural disasters, and errors affecting the entity's ability to meet its objectives; anomalies are analyzed
to determine whether they represent security events.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Monitoring software is used to collect data from system infrastructure components and endpoint systems; to monitor
system performance, potential security threats and vulnerabilities, and resource utilization; and to detect unusual system
activity or service requests.
CC7.2.2Requests for support, which may include requests for remote hands or customer access, go through the change
management process where either an email or ticket is logged for recording purposes. All personnel follow defined
protocols for recording, resolving, and escalating received requests.
CC7.2.3The network firewall incorporates IDS/IPS, Antivirus, Web Filtering and Malware detection utilities to monitor external
access attempts to the Provdotnet environment.
CC7.2.4Data center operation personnel implement documented counter measures strategies when vulnerabilities are detected.
CC7.2.5Updates/backups are performed using an automated system on internal systems.
CC7.3The entity evaluates security events to determine whether they could or have resulted in a failure of the entity to meet
its objectives (security incidents) and, if so, takes actions to prevent or address such failures.
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC7.3.1
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Operations personnel follow defined protocols for evaluating reported system events that may indicate a breach or other
related incident. Security related events are assigned to an appropriate party for evaluation.
CC7.3.2Operations and security personnel follow defined protocols for resolving and escalating reported events. This includes
root cause analysis that is escalated to Management as required.
CC7.3.3Internal and external users are informed of incidents in a timely manner and advised of any corrective measures to be
taken on their part.
CC7.3.4Change management requests are opened for events that require permanent fixes.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
40Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
CC7.4
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC7.4.1
The entity responds to identified security incidents by executing a defined incident response program to understand,
contain, remediate, and communicate security incidents, as appropriate.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Operations personnel follow defined protocols for evaluating reported system events that may indicate a breach or other
related incident. Security related events are assigned to an appropriate party for evaluation.
CC7.4.2Operations and security personnel follow defined protocols for resolving and escalating reported events. This includes
root cause analysis that is escalated to Management as required.
CC7.4.3Internal and external users are informed of incidents in a timely manner and advised of any corrective measures to be
taken on their part.
CC7.4.4Change management requests are opened for events that require permanent fixes.
CC7.5The entity identifies, develops, and implements activities to recover from identified security incidents.
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC7.5.1
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Operations personnel follow defined protocols for evaluating reported system events that may indicate a breach or other
related incident. Security related events are assigned to an appropriate party for evaluation.
CC7.5.2Operations and security personnel follow defined protocols for resolving and escalating reported events. This includes
root cause analysis that is escalated to Management as required.
CC7.5.3Internal and external users are informed of incidents in a timely manner and advised of any corrective measures to be
taken on their part.
CC7.5.4Change management requests are opened for events that require permanent fixes.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
41Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Change Management
CC8.1
TSC
Control
Criteria
CC8.1.1
The entity authorizes, designs, develops or acquires, configures, documents, tests, approves, and implements changes
to infrastructure, data, software, and procedures to meet its objectives.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
System changes, other than those classified as minor, require dual approval before implementing.
CC8.1.2During the ongoing risk assessment process and the periodic planning and budgeting processes, infrastructure, data,
software, and procedures are evaluated for needed changes. Change requests are created based on the identified needs.
CC8.1.3For high severity incidents, a root cause analysis is prepared and reviewed by operations management. Based on the
root cause analysis, change requests are prepared and the entity's risk management process and relevant risk
management data is updated to reflect the planned incident and problem resolution.
CC8.1.4A process exists to manage emergency changes.
CC8.1.5Service related system change requests must be reviewed and approved by both the CEO and a managing partner prior
to work commencing on the requested change. Separate personnel are responsible to authorize changes and to
implement the changes.
CC8.1.6Functional and detailed designs are prepared for other than minor changes. Functional and detailed designs must be
approved by both the CEO and a managing partner prior to work commencing on the development project.
CC8.1.7Established entity standards exist for infrastructure and software hardening and configuration that include requirements
for implementation of access control software, entity configuration standards, and standardized access control lists.
CC8.1.8A turnover process that includes verification of operation and back out steps is used for every migration.
CC8.1.9Post implementation procedures that are designed to verify the operation of system changes are performed for a defined
period, as determined during project planning, after the implementation for other than minor changes, and results are
shared with internal and external users and customers as required to meet commitments and system requirements.
CC8.1.10The change management process has defined the following roles and assignments:
• Authorization of change requests - owner or business unit manager
• Development - application design and support
• Testing - quality assurance
• Implementation
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
42Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
Risk Mitigation
CC9.1
TSC
Control
Criteria
The entity identifies, selects, and develops risk mitigation activities for risks arising from potential business
disruptions.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
CC9.1.1Provdotnet has formal Disaster Recovery and Incident Response Plans developed to respond to, mitigate, and recover
from security events that disrupt business operations.
CC9.1.2The Risk Management Team meets regularly to review the Cumulative Risk Register and to discuss other items that
may impact Provdotnet’s risk management objectives.
CC9.2The entity assesses and manages risks associated with vendors and business partners.
TSC
Control
Criteria
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
CC9.2.1Provdotnet establishes specific requirements for a vendor and business partner engagement that includes (1) scope of
services and product specifications, (2) roles and responsibilities, (3) compliance requirements, and (4) service levels.
CC9.2.2Provdotnet assesses, on a periodic basis, the risks that vendors and business partners (and those entities' vendors and
business partners) represent to the achievement of the entity's objectives.
CC9.2.3Provdotnet has assigned responsibility and accountability for the management of risks associated with vendors and
business partners to the Director of Operations and Finance.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
43Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
C. APPLICABLE TRUST SERVICES CRITERIA RELEVANT TO AVAILABILITY
Additional Criteria for Availability
A1.1
TSC
Control
Criteria
A1.1.1
The entity maintains, monitors, and evaluates current processing capacity and use of system components
(infrastructure, data, and software) to manage capacity demand and to enable the implementation of additional
capacity to help meet its objectives.
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Processing capacity is monitored on an ongoing basis in accordance with SLAs, key performance indicators (“KPI”s),
and other performance related parameters.
A1.1.2Critical infrastructure components have been reviewed for criticality classification and assignment of a minimum level
of redundancy.
A1.1.3Future processing demand is forecasted and compared to scheduled capacity on an ongoing basis. Forecasts are
reviewed and approved by Senior Operations Management. Change requests are initiated as needed based on approved
forecasts.
A1.1.4Environmental protections receive testing/maintenance on at least an annual basis.
A1.1.5Weekly/bi‐weekly tests are performed on necessary systems using an automated system to ensure reliability.
A1.1.6Business continuity and disaster recovery plans have been developed, updated, and tested annually.
A1.2The entity authorizes, designs, develops or acquires, implements, operates, approves, maintains, and monitors
environmental protections, software, data backup processes, and recovery infrastructure to meet its objectives.
TSC
Control
Criteria
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
A1.2.1As part of the risk assessment process, Provdotnet identifies environmental threats that could impair the availability of
the system, including threats resulting from adverse weather, failure of environmental control systems, electrical
discharge, fire, and water.
A1.2.2Detection measures are implemented to identify anomalies that could result from environmental threat events.
A1.2.3Provdotnet has implemented environmental protection mechanisms including fire and water suppression systems,
temperature and humidity controls, uninterruptable power system and generator backup and video security systems to
prevent and mitigate against environmental events.
A1.2.4Data Center monitoring occurs continuously with alerts generated to Provdotnet operations personnel when
environmental conditions register events outside of normal operations thresholds.
A1.2.5Procedures are in place for responding to environmental threat events which includes automatic mitigation systems
(uninterruptable power systems and generator back-up subsystem).
A1.2.6The Provdotnet Disaster Recovery plan sets forth measures for migrating processing to an alternate infrastructure in the
event normal processing infrastructure becomes unavailable.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
44Provdotnet, LLC
Report of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security and Availability
as of June 30, 2020
A1.3
The entity tests recovery plan procedures supporting system recovery to meet its objectives.
TSC
Control
Controls Provided by Provdotnet, LLC
Criteria
A1.3.1
Provdotnet has a formal disaster recovery plan that sets forth operational procedures to implement in the event of a
disaster affecting Provdotnet at any or all of Provdotnet’s operating locations.
A1.3.2Business continuity and disaster recovery plans, including restoration of backups, and emergency notification systems
are tested annually.
A1.3.3Test results are reviewed and the contingency plan is adjusted, as necessary.
This report is intended solely for use by the management of Provdotnet, LLC, its user entities, business partners, practitioners providing services to
such user entities and business partners, prospective user entities and business partners, and regulators. Any other use without the express written
permission of Provdotnet, LLC is prohibited.
